WIP docs (including Quick Start) (#94)
NLnetLabs/cascade: doc/manual/source/quick-start.rst

Quick Start
============

After :doc:`installing <installation>` Cascade you need to configure its
listening addresses before you can start using it.

Configuration the listen addresses
----------------------------------

Cascade only listens on localhost, by default. To make your signed zones
available, you need to add your public IP addresses to Cascade's listen
addresses.

.. tabs::

   .. group-tab:: Using systemd

        On a system with systemd, you need to override the
        ``cascaded.socket``, as Cascade will only listen on localhost, by
        default. To add your own listeners, use the following command:

        .. code-block:: bash

           sudo systemctl edit cascaded.socket

        and insert the following config:

        .. code-block:: text

           [Socket]
           ListenDatagram=<your-ip>:53

>            ListenStream=<your-ip>:53

Author: This assumes #93 merged

Quick Start
============

After :doc:`installing <installation>` Cascade you can immediately start using
it, if you only need it to listen on localhost. If you need to be able to
fetch the signed zones from other servers, you need to configure its
listening addresses.

> Configuration the listen addresses

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Configuring the listen addresses
```

----------------------------------

Cascade only listens on localhost, by default. To make your signed zones
available to your public primaries, you need to add the required IP addresses

> to Cascade's listen addresses.

Author: Maybe like ca6406bb and just remove all mention of anything else?

> to Cascade's listen addresses.

Reviewer: I don't recall what happened with XFR ACL policy, should check.

.. tabs::

   .. group-tab:: Using systemd

>         On a system with systemd, you need to override the
>         ``cascaded.socket``, as Cascade will only listen on localhost, by
>         default. To add your own listeners, use the following command:

Reviewer: Too many commas.
```suggestion
        On systems using systemd to run Cascade the systemd files included in our provided packages use the systemd socket activation feature to bind to listen addresses on behalf of Cascade. If you wish to change the addresses bound to you will need to edit the ``cascaded.socket`` systemd file. One way to do this is to use the `systemctl edit` command like so:
```

        .. code-block:: bash

           sudo systemctl edit cascaded.socket

        and insert the following config:

        .. code-block:: text

           [Socket]
           ListenDatagram=<your-ip>:53
           ListenStream=<your-ip>:53

>         if you wish to disable the listen address for localhost, you'll need
>         to replace the top line (``[Socket]``) with the following (adding
>         ``ListenStream=`` resets all previously defined ``ListenStream`` and
>         ``ListenDatagram`` settings):
> 
>         .. code-block:: text
> 
>            [Socket]
>            #ListenStream=
>            # ... the other ListenDatagram/ListenStream settings

Reviewer: ```suggestion
           [Socket]
           # Uncomment the next line if you wish to disable listening on localhost.
           #ListenStream=
           ListenDatagram=<your-ip>:53
           ListenStream=<your-ip>:53
```

        After editing the ``cascaded.socket`` file, you need to issue this
        command for systemd to pick up the changes:

        .. code-block:: bash

            sudo systemctl daemon-reload

        Then you can start Cascade with:

        .. code-block:: bash

            sudo systemctl start cascaded

        Or, if Cascade is already running, restart with:

        .. code-block:: bash

            sudo systemctl restart cascaded

   .. group-tab:: Without systemd

        When using Cascade without systemd, you need to configure the listen
        address in Cascade's ``config.toml`` in the ``[servers]`` section:

        .. code-block:: text

            [server]

>             servers = ["127.0.0.1:53", "<your-ip>:53"]

Reviewer: Do we need localhost here?

```suggestion
            servers = ["<your-ip>:53"]
```

        Then you can start Cascade with (replace the config and state path
        with your appropriate values):

        .. code-block:: bash

            sudo cascade --config /etc/cascade/config.toml --state /var/lib/cascade/state.db

> Adding an unsigned zone to sign

Reviewer: ?

```suggestion
Signing your first zone
```

-------------------------------

After configuring Cascade, you can begin adding zones. Cascade supports zones
sourced from a local file or fetched from another name server using XFR.

> However, before adding a zone you need to create a zone policy to use for the

Reviewer: This would be easier if we had a default policy supplied with the packages, then we can just say the zone you are adding will use the default policy.

        so:

        .. code-block:: bash

           sudo systemctl edit cascaded.socket

        and insert the following config:

        .. code-block:: text

           [Socket]
           # Uncomment the next line if you wish to disable listening on localhost.
           #ListenStream=
           ListenDatagram=<your-ip>:53
           ListenStream=<your-ip>:53

        Then notify systemd of the changes and (re)start Cascade:

        .. code-block:: bash

            sudo systemctl daemon-reload
            sudo systemctl restart cascaded

   .. group-tab:: Without systemd

        When using Cascade without systemd, you need to configure the listen
        address in Cascade's ``config.toml`` in the ``[servers]`` section:

        .. code-block:: text

            [server]
            servers = ["<your-ip>:53"]

        Then you can start Cascade with (replace the config and state path
        with your appropriate values, and if your config uses privileged ports
        or the daemonization identity feature run the command as root):

        .. code-block:: bash

            cascade --config /etc/cascade/config.toml --state /var/lib/cascade/state.db

> Signing your first zone
> -------------------------------
> 
> After configuring Cascade, you can begin adding zones. Cascade supports zones
> sourced from a local file or fetched from another name server using XFR.
> 
> Zones take a lot of their settings from policy.
> 
> Policies allow easy re-use of settings across multiple zones and control
> things like whether or not zones should be reviewed and how, what DNSSEC
> settings should be used to sign the zone, and more.
> 
> Adding a policy is done by creating a file. To make it easy to get started we
> provide a default policy template so we'll use that to create a policy for our
> zone to use.
> 
> The name of the policy is taken from the filename. The directory to save the
> policy file to is determined by the ``policy-dir`` setting as configured in
> ``/etc/cascade/config.toml``. The filename can be any valid filename and will
> be used as the name of the policy.
> 
> In the example below the `sudo tee` command is needed because the default
> policy directory is not writable by the current user.
> 
> .. code-block:: bash
> 
>    cascade template policy | sudo tee /etc/cascade/policies/default.toml
>    cascade policy reload
> 
> Then, to add a zone use:

Reviewer: As the policy topic grew, perhaps:

```suggestion
Defining policy
---------------

After configuring Cascade, you can begin adding zones. Cascade supports zones
sourced from a local file or fetched from another name server using XFR.

Zones take a lot of their settings from policy.

Policies allow easy re-use of settings across multiple zones and control
things like whether or not zones should be reviewed and how, what DNSSEC
settings should be used to sign the zone, and more.

Adding a policy is done by creating a file. To make it easy to get started we
provide a default policy template so we'll use that to create a policy for our
zone to use.

The name of the policy is taken from the filename. The directory to save the
policy file to is determined by the ``policy-dir`` setting as configured in
``/etc/cascade/config.toml``. The filename can be any valid filename and will
be used as the name of the policy.

In the example below the `sudo tee` command is needed because the default
policy directory is not writable by the current user.

.. code-block:: bash

   cascade template policy | sudo tee /etc/cascade/policies/default.toml
   cascade policy reload

Signing your first zone
-----------------------

Adding a zone to Cascade will cause Cascade to attempt to load, sign and publish it. If you configured review hooks they will be executed (and may intentionally prevent your zone reaching publication).

To add a zone use:
```

Quick Start
============

After :doc:`installing <installation>` Cascade you can immediately start using
it, unless you need to adjust the addresses it listens on or need to modify
the settings relating to daemonization.

> Configuring the listen addresses
> ----------------------------------
> 
> By default, Cascade only listens on localhost. If you want Cascade to listen
> on other addresses too, you need to configure them as shown below:

Reviewer: If we write the following, the next bit that says "After configuring Cascade" makes more sense. What do you think?

```suggestion
Configuring Cascade
---------------------

By default, Cascade only listens on the localhost address. If you want Cascade to listen
on other addresses too, you need to configure them.

The ``/etc/cascade/config.toml`` file controls listen addresses, which filesystem paths Cascade uses, daemonizatioan settings (running in the background, running aa a different user, and log settings.

If using systemd to run Cascade some of these settings should be ignored and systemd features used instead.
```

           #ListenStream=
           ListenDatagram=<your-ip>:53
           ListenStream=<your-ip>:53

        Then notify systemd of the changes and (re)start Cascade:

        .. code-block:: bash

            sudo systemctl daemon-reload
            sudo systemctl restart cascaded

   .. group-tab:: Without systemd

        When using Cascade without systemd, you need to configure the listen
        address in Cascade's ``config.toml`` in the ``[servers]`` section:

        .. code-block:: text

            [server]
            servers = ["<your-ip>:53"]

        Then you can start Cascade with (replace the config and state path
        with your appropriate values, and if your config uses privileged ports
        or the daemonization identity feature run the command as root):

        .. code-block:: bash

            cascade --config /etc/cascade/config.toml --state /var/lib/cascade/state.db

Signing your first zone
-------------------------------

After configuring Cascade, you can begin adding zones. Cascade supports zones
sourced from a local file or fetched from another name server using XFR.

> However, before adding a zone you need to create a zone policy to use for the
> zone (you can choose your own name instead of ``default``):

Reviewer: How about this?

```suggestion
Zones take a lot of their settings from policy.

Policies allow easy re-use of settings across multiple zones and control things like whether or not zones should be reviewed and how, what DNSSEC settings should be used to sign the zone, and more.

Adding a policy is done by creating a file. To make it easy to get started we provide a default policy template so we'll use that to create a policy for our zone to use.

The name of the policy is taken from the filename. The directory to save the policy file to is determined by the ``policy-dir`` setting in configured in ``/etc/cascade/config.toml``. The filename can be any valid filename and will be used as the name of the policy.

In the example below the `sudo tee` command is needed because the default policy directory is not writable by the current user.
```

.. code-block:: bash

   cascade template policy | sudo tee /etc/cascade/policies/default.toml
   cascade policy reload

Then, to add a zone use:

.. code-block:: bash

   cascade zone add --source <file-path|ip-address> --policy default <zone-name>

> Now, your zone will be picked up by Cascade, keys prepared, and the signing

Reviewer: I suggest at this point showing `cascade zone status <zone-name>`.
